we're almost done with writing the
solidity code for our contract to run
our online marketplace there's one more
task I want to show you how to create a
kill function it's named accurately
describes its function it's gonna
destroy our contract and send its funds
to a specified address before we get
into the details let's talk about why we
would want to do such a thing
there are a couple valid reasons why you
want to kill a contract for example
stopping all business operations in the
event that the company using the
contract is no longer in business or as
an extreme security measure in this case
it may be due to some security event
where you simply have no other option to
protect your business's funds other than
to shut down operations now that one
sounds kind of extreme but blockchain
development is still in its infancy as
use of blockchain grows so will the
attacks against it and you may find
yourself in a situation where killing
the contract is the only means of
protecting your customers assets let's
look at implementing a self-destruct
function first calling the self-destruct
method is the only way to remove code
from the blockchain it accepts one
parameter the address where it should
send its funds but doesn't guarantee
that your code and storage is removed
everywhere some aetherium clients may
not prune old contracts and some archive
nodes may keep the code and storage
indefinitely for this reason it
shouldn't be thought of as a way to
permanently scrub something from the
blockchain there's one final point
that's really important for you to know
once you destroy a contract any funds
sent to that address are lost forever
that's definitely something to keep in
mind when designing your contract
disaster recovery strategy to implement
a self-destruct function well first
create a normal function just like the
others we've defined in our smart
contract that means we'll start with the
function keyword followed by the name
for our function and its visibility next
we'll have a require statement to ensure
that the function can only be executed
by the contract owner after all this
isn't something we want anyone to be
able to execute then we'll call the
self-destruct function and specify the
contract owner as the address that
should receive any remaining funds in
the contract
and then finally we close our function
out with the closing curly brace but
wait a minute what's this owner variable
we haven't seen that before and how do
we know who that is
we need to build that variable and when
you think about it there's only one time
we have access to the address creating
the contract that's when the contract
gets created right we'll use a
constructor to solve this problem a
constructor is a special function that
gets executed once when the contract is
created due to its nature only one
constructor is allowed well let's see
what it looks like using a simple
contract as an example we define a
variable named owner as a type of
address this is where the variable owner
used in the kill function came from then
we create our constructor it looks
similar to a function but it doesn't
require the function keyword at the
beginning inside of it we set the owner
variable equal to the address of the
message sender since the constructor can
only be called once at the time the
contract is created our owner variable
is now forever set to the address that
created the contract let's jump into our
code editor and add our constructor and
kill function to our contract we'll add
the variable declaration for our owner
right at the top of our solidity
contract after our variable declarations
will add the constructor with the
visibility set to public where we assign
the owner equal to the message sender
we'll create a new function named kill
with the visibility set to public add a
require ensuring that the only one who
can call this is the contract owner and
then call the self-destruct function
specifying the owner is the recipient of
any available funds from this contract
as you've seen the self-destruct method
is pretty impactful so let me ask you
this can you think of other ways to
secure our online marketplace that
aren't as destructive based on what
we've learned in this video about
constructors and setting the contract
owner I think there's another way we can
add some security and flexibility to our
contract we've got our owner variable
set so let's add another variable called
online as a boolean and we can add a
function to toggle the online
variable status between true and false
that variable can then be used as a
require statement in our ad item by item
and claim funds functions to prevent any
activity when on line is set to false
it's going to look a little something
like this
after adding our boolean variable we can
use it in a require modifier in our key
functions by adding that requirement to
add item by item and claim funds we can
restrict access to any of our functions
that change the state or transfer funds
it provides many of the benefits of the
self-destruct function without the
permanent side effects but to jump into
our code editor one more time for this
lesson and add these features will add
our boolean parameter online
and we'll create a new function set
online that accepts a boolean status as
a parameter again we want to restrict
access to only the contract owner who
can open and close our store and then
we'll set the online variable equal to
the status that we passed in when we
call the function so we'll pass in true
or false which will toggle the status of
our online store
now we can add the require online equal
true to our add item function
we can add it to our by item function
and we can add it to our claim funds
function this is going to ensure that
those functions can't be called if
online is set defaults also notice that
I added this as the first line in each
of those functions that's because if the
online store is false we want this to
fail immediately before it tries to take
any other actions and that completes our
smart contract for our online
marketplace we covered a lot of ground
in this section from creating a basic
contract to functions that provide our
business logic to adding security to
protect our business and our assets in
the next section we're going to be
writing tests to ensure our smart
contract functions execute the way we
intended them to take a break if you
need to and when you're ready I'll see
you in the next section testing your
smart contract